Over the years, researchers have noticed that a prior Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is present in almost all multiple sclerosis patients, with EBV seroconversion being followed by an increase in serological neurofilament light chain, a biomarker indicating neuroaxonal injury, (Bjornevik et. al, 2022). Molecular mimicry between viral and self-antigens is one proposed mechanism for this association. In this study, a multi-stage computational pipeline incorporating NetMHCIIpan, MixMHC2pred, TCR-facing BLOSUM62 similarity scoring, and 3D structural modeling was used to classify candidate EBV-human peptide pairs as candidates for future experimental peptide-HLA binding and register validation. Following an initial rigorous TCR-BLOSUM62 analysis of TCR-contact residues of 6,400 allele-specific pairs across four HLA class II alleles (HLA-DRB1*03:01, *08:01, *13:03, and *15:01), a targeted evidence-review panel of eight pairs underwent further binding affinity and register analysis, yielding two medium-priority pairs and six holds classified as such due to criteria gaps, including predictor discrepancies and register disagreements. In the eight-peptide evidence-review panel, the viral BALF5 (DNA polymerase catalytic subunit) peptide from 627-641 AA paired with the human TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ (DRB1*15:01) and TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ (DRB1*13:03) (transaldolase) peptides at rank 14/1600 in *15:01 and rank 13/1600 in *13:03. When the initial screen was expanded to a 49-pair evaluation to address the selectivity concerns,, both BALF5-TALDO1 pairs alone were re-recovered, with BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁ - TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ in HLA-DRB1*15:01 being classified by the pipeline as a strong-medium candidate, supported by computational consensus and IEDB-listed BALF5 binding evidence. In this study, structural modeling revealed binding register instability, while several evidence reviews found key gaps in public self-antigen presentation records, especially in alleles outside of the HLA-DR15 system. The study results provide a prioritized shortlist for experimental binding, register-mapping, and T-cell cross-reactivity testing. 

 
 Introduction 
 Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease that can cause a degeneration of motor, sensory, visual, and cognitive abilities and is caused by immune-mediated damage that affects myelin sheaths in the brain, spinal cord, and optic nerves. It is a key component for function of the central and peripheral nervous system (NINDS). 

 In 2022, Bjornevik et al. studied a cohort of more than 10 million US military personnel; 955 of whom developed MS. According to Bjornevik et al.&rsquo;s data analysis, MS risk increased approximately 32-fold following EBV infection. Meanwhile, cytomegalovirus was found to have no comparable increase in MS risk in Bjornevik et al.&rsquo;s study. The biomarker (serum neurofilament light chain) of nerve-fiber injury after EBV seen by Bjornevik et al showed that observed serum neurofilament light only increased after EBV infection, indicating that EBV may precede detectable neurological injury. In 2022, Lanz et al. identified an antibody from an MS patient that recognized both EBV EBNA1 and the human CNS protein GlialCAM. This evidence supports the theory that molecular mimicry is the source of the connection between EBV and MS. 

 Previous studies like the one conducted by Lanz et al. in 2022 identified cross-reactive antibodies, however comprehensive mapping of T-cell cross-reactivity remains incompletely defined. T-cell receptors (TCRs) recognize a specific peptide presented within the binding groove of a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecule rather than the peptide alone. Consequently, sequence-only comparisons of peptide-MHCs (pMHC) do not directly define the HLA binding aspect of immune recognition. Furthermore, different HLA alleles show distinct structural preferences, changing both the pMHC binding affinity and the specific binding register, the placement of the 9-amino acid core within the HLA groove. This binding register directly determines which amino acid residues are anchor residues and which are TCR contact residues. 
 
 To address this gap in research, the computational pipeline developed in this study provides a filtering mechanism. By integrating peptide-HLA binding predictions, register-aware sequence alignments, and predicted three-dimensional peptide-HLA structures, the pipeline was able to prioritize a small subset of viral-self peptide pairs prior to laboratory testing. Although predicted structural or sequence resemblance doesn&rsquo;t guarantee stable cell-surface presentation or functional T-cell activation in vivo, the models describe predicted similarities between pMHCs rather than actual experimentally confirmed registers. 

 
 Materials and Methods 
 This study describes a computational prioritization pipeline designed to identify high-interest Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-human self-peptide candidate pairs for subsequent experimental peptide-HLA binding and binding register validation. This computational workflow integrated predicted HLA binding affinities, register-aware sequence alignments, structural modeling, and downstream evidence reviews. However, these computational predictions alone do not establish natural processing and presentation in vivo, surface pMHC stability, or T-cell receptor (TCR) recognition and functional cross-reactivity. 

 In our computational pipeline, an EBV repertoire was curated from the Immune Epitope Database (IEDB) by filtering EBV source peptides with positive T-cell assay outcomes from MHC class II alleles in specifically human hosts. For human self-proteins, the pipeline selected human myelin-associated and central nervous system (CNS) proteins from positive IEDB MHC-II T-cell records and additional 15-mer peptides derived from UniProt sequences. To ensure quality, the pipeline merged duplicate assay records sharing accession coordinates, and sequences. Also, it removed peptides lacking an &ldquo;Exact Epitope&rdquo; classification or invalid length (<11 AA or >30 AA) for imported IEDB records and removed sequences containing nonstandard or ambiguous amino-acid single-letter codes (i.e. X, B, Z). Finally, the 40 EBV peptides and 40 human peptides per allele selected using evidence and protein-coverage rules were organized to pair every viral peptide with every human peptide within each allele to create a final universe of 6400 allele-specific peptide pairs. 

 In the pipeline, analysis in the initial sequence screen was limited to HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*08:01, HLA-DRB1*13:03, and HLA-DRB1*15:01. In this initial screen, each HLA allele was evaluated independently, meaning pMHCs from one allele were not compared with pMHCs from another allele. Furthermore, to ensure consistency, HLA-DRA*01:01 was the α chain for every pMHC model in the pipeline. 

 Alongside binding register similarity, sequence similarity was also calculated using the BLOSUM62 substitution matrix. Since the entire sequence with the exception of the peptide chain is identical in each allele-bound pair, sequence similarity was restricted strictly to the predicted TCR-contact residue positions (P2, P3, P5, P7, P8) derived from the aligned 9-residue binding cores. In the scoring interface, higher substitution matrix alignment scores indicated greater physicochemical resemblance and amino-acid substitution similarity at the potential TCR interface. Granted, the rank was based on a relative sequence-prioritization score, not a measure of T-cell recognition, cross-reactivity, presentation, or molecular mimicry. Percentile rankings were calculated independently into values like 0.281 and 0.314 (formula found in Supplementary Methods) within each specific allele&rsquo;s 1600-pair cohort. 

 
 In the pipeline, heterotrimeric pMHC complexes (HLA-DRA + relevant HLA-DR β chain + target peptide) were modeled using AlphaFold 3 web server across five returned models per pMHC AlphaFold job. The completeness of each model was evaluated through a quality analysis framework that checked coordinate completion. Reported metrics like peptide pLDDT, and peptide-chain ipTM were used to evaluate the confidence of the structure. The pipeline isolated the peptide AlphaFold confidence metrics to prevent any overshadowing by the HLA chains which can dominate global complex confidence. First, alignment of the first 85 Cα atoms from HLA chain A and the first 85 Cα atoms from HLA chain B was performed by Kabsch fitting. Then, structural deviation between peptides was quantified using backbone root-mean-square-deviation (RMSD) was measured over the shared 11-mer peptide window that was nested around the proposed nine-residue core. To prevent overstating the bounds of our claims, AlphaFold outputs were treated strictly as predicted models rather than experimental coordinates and analyzed independently of TCR docking simulations. 

 After 8 candidate pairs were selected from the 6,400-comparison allele-specific pairs for deeper review, they went through a standardized manual evidence audit. In this audit, the predicted binding support, predicted register agreement, IEDB sequence/provenance records, public immunopeptidome evidence, viral sequence conservation, and human self-protein tissue expression/rarity were evaluated. Based on this multi-layered evidence review, each pair was categorized as either high priority, medium priority, or hold. The pipeline placed no candidates as high-priority, two candidates as medium-priority, and six candidates on hold due to the failure of one or both peptide arms to meet the binding criteria, unverified provenance, missing support in immunopeptidomic presentation datasets, or register discrepancies. The two candidates selected as medium priority were BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ for HLA-DRB1*13:03 and BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ for HLA-DRB1*15:01. The results of the initial 8-pair evidence review were separate from the later 49-pair provisional classifications. 
 	 
 For the initial eight-pair review, the pipeline predicted percentile ranks of the peptide-HLA class II using NetMHCIIpan-4.3 and MixMHC2pred for the peptide sequences submitted for the review. In this phase, both NetMHCIIpan-4.3 EL percentile and MixMHC2pred context percentile were used to produce predictions for each peptide. In order to achieve full binding consensus by the pipeline, a pair needed both predictors to have ≤5% for both the viral and self peptide arms. To achieve lesser binding support, at least one predictor needed to be ≤5% or both predictors returned percentile ranks ≤20%. To maintain the claim boundary, peptides were marked as computational predicted binders unless the IEDB data specified exact-match experimental binding assay records for the matching HLA allele. 

 For this initial eight-pair review, the binding-register alignment of all peptide arms was analyzed. The binding register is defined as the predicted nine-residue P1-P9 core positioned within the open-ended HLA class II binding groove. By using the core assignments determined by the NetMHCIIpan-4.3 EL and MixMHC2pred context algorithms, the pipeline assigned a predicted binding register and compared these registers against each other. Disagreements were defined as any different predicted core sequence, (i.e. a shifted or overlapping nine-residue window) between the independent prediction algorithms, and were logged as a predicted register agreement/disagreement for each peptide. Then, the binding register was divided into major anchor residues (P1, P4, P6, P9), which were separated from predicted TCR-facing positions (P2, P3, P5, P7, P8), which were isolated for predictive TCR contact analysis. 

 This computational pipeline also used a method of literature-derived calibration. The published Hy.2E11 system BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-MBP₈₅-₉₉ (Lang et al., 2002) cross-reactive benchmark served as a reference for our structural-comparison system. This control was composed of two structures: HLA-DRA*01:01+HLA-DRB5*01:01 (BALF5 (PDB: 1H15)) and HLA-DRA*01:01+HLA-DRB1*15:01 (MBP (PDB:1BX2)). Since this control pair contained two distinct HLA-DR β chains it was categorized as a DR15 haplotype-level control system rather than a single-allele comparison. Therefore, this control system does not evaluate same-allele similarity or validate either BALF5-TALDO1 pairs or establish biological mimicry. 

 
 Alongside the main methods of register-aware sequence similarity and binding register physicochemical similarity, several other methods were explored and their scores were excluded from the primary ranking due to failure of controls. An attempt was made to use Poisson-Boltzmann/APBS pMHC surface-potential comparison as an exploratory pMHC surface-resemblance descriptor , but the electrostatic score results were excluded from primary candidate ranking because the control gate of 30 required results yielded 15 failed results and 12 missing results. This result didn&rsquo;t test or refute biological T-cell cross-reactivity 

 Additionally, DockQ evaluated an AlphaFold 3 TCR-pMHC calibration against 1YMM and 2WBJ experimental-reference complexes and CAPRI pose recovery. Since all ten models, which were derived from two five-model calibration jobs, received a score under the DockQ acceptable-quality boundary of 0.23 and both controls were defined by CAPRI as &ldquo;Incorrect,&rdquo; these outputs were excluded from candidate TCR ranking. 

 Separately from the Alphafold3 TCR-pMHC method described above, a method using TCRModel2 was attempted. In this method, TCRModel2 generated five-component TCR-pMHC models with an HLA-α chain, HLA-β chain, peptide, TCR α chain, and TCR β chain to test whether the workflow could recover known experimental TCR-pMHC poses before interpreting the Hy.2E11 structures. In our calibration set, TCRModel2 was tasked with recovering the experimental reference 1YMM, 1ZGL, 2WBJ using five ranked models per calibration. To evaluate the structures generated by TCRModel2, DockQ and CAPRI classification were used alongside TCR-placement, pMHC, TCR-fold, and whole-complex RMSD between each TCRModel2 model and its experimental reference structure. 1ZGL had five acceptable models with a DockQ of 0.411-0.479, 1YMM had five incorrect models with a DockQ of 0.010-0.140, and 2WBJ had five incorrect models with a DockQ of 0.016-0.038. 1ZGL passed the DockQ barrier, and 2WBJ and 1YMM had DockQ scores below the acceptable-quality boundary of 0.23. Thus, only one control met the recovery criterion and TCRModel2 candidate outputs were excluded from ranking and cannot support a shared-TCR or cross-reactivity claim. Therefore, the BALF5 replicate models can only be described as exploratory/internal predictions, not docking validations. 

 Throughout the pipeline, a high degree of reproducibility was maintained through thorough documentation of the entire process found in our GitHub repository. In the GitHub repository, the software environments, random seeds, input logs, and dataset checksums (SHA-256) are all retained. Furthermore, the ranking algorithms were completely deterministic. For example, ties in sequence similarity were systematically broken using an order of physicochemical mismatch in the ascending direction, identity in the descending direction, and local-surface percentile, in the ascending direction. Additionally, for unevaluated or incomplete data in public databases, those data points were marked as &ldquo;Not Reported&rdquo; rather than negative. Finally, no nominal p-values, FDR correction, or probabilistic &ldquo;mimicry probability&rdquo; were used in the computational rankings. 
 Results 
 
 Figure 1: Computational screening and multi-tier evaluation workflow for EBV-self peptide mimicry candidates 
 A schematic overview of the screening pipeline initialized from a source universe of 6,400 peptide-pair comparisons. The blue track outlines the initial-eight-pair-audit, culminating in terminal classification counts of 2 medium-priority, 6 hold, and 0 high-priority candidates. The orange track shows the subsequent 49-pair expansion pipeline, detailing outcomes across 44 register-agreement pairs, 2 pairs meeting complete computational criteria, 7 provisionally tiered pairs, and 42 untiered pairs. 

 3.1 Initial sequence comparisons across four HLA alleles 
 Initially, a total of 6,400 allele-specific peptide pair comparisons were evaluated across the four target alleles, separated evenly into 1,600 pairs for each allele batch (HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*08:01, HLA-DRB1*13:03, and HLA-DRB1*15:01). Alongside binding register metrics, sequence similarity metrics were subsequently derived across predicted TCR-contact residues (P2, P3, P5, P7, P8). Across all four target alleles, the resulting score distributions exhibited marked rightward skewing, with a minimal subset of candidate pairs demonstrating elevated sequence similarity at potential TCR contact sites (Figure 2). However, it is important to note that the scores reflected a relative amino acid substitution matrix resemblance using TCR-facing BLOSUM62, not a percentage identity or a clear probability of cross-reactivity. 

 The pair EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ was the top sequence rank (score 0.52) in two distinct allele contexts: HLA-DRB1*08:01 and HLA-DRB1*15:01. In contrast, the remaining allele cohorts were led by different pairs: EBNA2₁₃₆-₁₅₀-MOG₉₇-₁₀₉was the top pair for HLA-DRB1*03:01 (score 0.48), and EBNA3B₁₃₉-₁₅₃-MOG₂₂₁-₂₃₅ was the top pair for HLA-DRB1*13:03 (score 0.49). Some other high-ranking pairs included the BLLF1₆₅-₇₅-PLP1₁₄₀-₁₅₂ (rank 4, HLA-DRB1*13:03) and BLLF1₆₅-₇₅-CLDN11₁₉₃-₂₀₇ (rank 6, HLA-DRB1*15:01). 

 
 Table 1: Ranking of top pairs for each allele based on sequence-based analysis 
 HLA-DRB1 Allele 
	 Rank 1 Pair (Score) 
	 Rank 2 Pair (Score) 
	 Rank 3 Pair (Score) 

 *03:01 
	 EBNA2₁₃₆-₁₅₀- MOG₉₇-₁₀₉ (0.48) 
	 BNRF1₃₇-₅₁- CLDN11₁₉₃-₂₀₇ (0.44) 
	 BALF4₁₀₃-₁₁₆ - CRYAB₁-₁₅ (0.41) 

 *08:01 
	 EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ (0.52) 
	 BLLF1₆₅-₇₅-PLP1₁₄₀-₁₅₂ (0.42) 
	 BZLF1₁₉₈-₂₁₀ - MAG₆₁₂-₆₂₆ (0.391) 

 *13:03 
	 EBNA3B₁₃₉-₁₅₃ - MOG₂₂₁-₂₃₅ (0.49) 
	 BNRF1₃₇-₅₁- CLDN11₁₉₃-₂₀₇ (0.44) 
	 BARF1₁-₁₅ - MAG₁-₁₅ (0.44) 

 *15:01 
	 EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ (0.52) 
	 EBNA3B₁₃₉-₁₅₃-MOG₂₂₁-₂₃₅ (0.49) 
	 BALF4₅₇₅-₅₈₉ - CNP₁-₁₅ (0.43) 

 
 
 Figure 2: Distribution of TCR-facing sequence similarity scores across HLA class II contexts. 
 Allele-specific violin plots showing the distributions of TCR-facing BLOSUM62 similarity scores across the four evaluated HLA class II alleles, labeled with individual comparison points. Markers indicated the candidate Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BALF5 and human TALDO1 peptide pairs. Reported ranks (13/1600 and 14/1600) represent relative within-allele positions rather than absolute rankings across the combined dataset. 
 In the computational pipeline&rsquo;s sequence similarity ranking results, the BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁ peptide paired with the human TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ peptide achieved a similarity score of 0.281 in HLA-DRB1*13:03, ranking 13 of 1600 pairs. 

 Additionally, the BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁ viral peptide paired with the human TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ peptide achieved a similarity score of 0.314 in HLA-DRB1*15:01, ranked 14 of 1600. 

 
 However, it is important to note that these two comparisons involve different human peptide regions rather than one identical pair. That said, both pairings showed a 40.0% sequence identity (⅖ residues) across the TCR-contact positions (P2, P3, P5, P7, P8), with a full-core identity of ~22.2% (2/9) in *13:03 and 33.3% (3/9 residues) in *15:01. 

 Furthermore, it is important to note that relative rankings shifted when evaluated under alternative scoring formulations. When using full-core BLOSUM62 scoring, the HLA-DRB1*13:03 BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ candidate dropped to rank 173, while the HLA-DRB1*15:01 candidate jumped to rank 3. Conversely, under the strict physiochemical mismatch scoring, the *13:03 candidate placed at rank 29, while the *15:01 candidate fell to rank 453. Finally, the description on how ties were broken can be found in the methods section. 
 
 Figure 4: Within-allele rank sensitivity of BALF5-TALDO1 mimicry candidates across scoring formulations. 
 Evaluation of candidate ranking across the two allele-specific BALF5-TALDO1 contexts evaluated under three distinct scoring formulations. The vertical axis represents within-allele rank plotted on a reverse logarithmic scale, such that rank 1 corresponds to the highest sequence similarity. The human TALDO1 peptide regions evaluated differ by allele context (TALDO1₁₀₈₋₁₂₂ in HLA-DRB1*13:03 vs. TALDO1₂₁₆₋₂₃₀ in HLA-DRB1*15:01). 
 3.2 Initial Eight-Candidate Evidence Review 
 The next stage of the computational pipeline was a targeted review of the evidence of a panel of eight candidate pairs selected for deep review from the 6,400 allele-specific pair matrix yielding two medium-priority pairs, six holds, and zero high priority pairs (Figure 3) 
 
 Figure 3: Evidence matrix and evaluation summary for initial eight candidate peptide pairs 
 Systematic breakdown of the eight audited candidate pairs across predictive and empirical evaluation criteria represented in each column. Columns show specific binary (Yes/No) metrics, differentiation computational predictions (e.g., predicted binding affinity, register compatibility) from published experimental evidence. Across all evaluated criteria, final classifications resolved into two medium-priority pairs, six holds, and zero high-priority candidates. 
 The two pairs that were classified as medium priority were the HLA-DRB1*13:03 (BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂) and HLA-DRB1*15:01 (BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀) candidates. 
 
 Both the medium priority BALF5-TALDO1 candidates exhibited a core register agreement across the prediction methods included in the initial review. However, it is important to note that the evaluation of these registers is all speculative, as experimental work has not confirmed these registers. In order to have full binding consensus, for each peptide arm, both NetMHCIIpan-EL percentile and MixMHC2pred percentile had to be ≤5%. In order for a pair to be classified as having lesser binding support, at least one predictor needed to classify each binding arm as ≤5% or both predictors needed to classify each peptide arm as ≤20%. That being said, neither candidate satisfied full-binding consensus criteria. For the HLA-DRB1*13:03 candidate, the viral peptide arm met the minimum percentile of ≤5% while the self-peptide did not achieve a binding affinity confidence percentile of ≤5% well enough with HLA-DRB1*13:03 by NetMHCIIpan or MixMHC2pred. On the other hand, in the HLA-DRB1*15:01 candidate, neither the self-peptide nor the viral peptide met the binding criteria for full binding consensus. These binding affinity thresholds reflect the initial review step, as subsequent predictor outputs yielded different scores. 
 
 Figure 5: Structural modeling sensitivity to peptide input length across HLA class I alleles 
 Parent-versus-nested peptide backbone RMSD across four peptide arms evaluated in HLA-DRB1*13:03 (BALF5 and TALDO1) and HLA-DRB1*15:01 (BALF5 and TALDO1). Vertical ranges delineate the minimum-maximum RMSD across 25 pairwise structural alignments between 15-mer parent models and 11-mer nested core models; open circles denote median RMSD values. These variations reflect predicted-model sensitivity to sequence flanking lengths and do not constitute experimental confirmation of binding registers. 
 Finally, no corroborating evidence was found with public experimental evidence under our review protocol, such as mass spectrometry, eluted ligand records in the IEDB or immunopeptidome repositories sourced from PRIDE, for either self-peptides. 

 The remaining six reviewed candidate pairs were placed on hold for the time being due to candidate-specific evidence gaps recorded by the computational pipeline, including discordance between predicted registers, failure of one of both peptide arms in the pair to satisfy the binding-consensus criteria, or absent public experimental assay records. 

 In summary, this review stage functioned as an initial evaluation of the eight pre-selected pairs and was independent of the parallel V3 structural-selection track. Also, these classifications were not static and were subsequently reevaluated through concentrated structural modeling and the expanded evidence review. 

 
 3.3 Focused Structural Assessment of Predicted Binding Registers 

 Isolating the two medium pairs from the eight-pair evidence audit, the computational pipeline implemented several methods of structural assessment on BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ in DRB1*13:03, BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ in DRB1*15:01, and a DRB5*01:01 restriction test to assess possible gaps in the predicted binding registers. Specifically, the initial step of the review included a 3D structural modeling consisting of 13 submission jobs to AlphaFold 3 with five models returned per job, totaling 65 structural models. Then, all generated models underwent verification checks for coordinate completeness, correct chain identifiers, and peptide sequence integrity. 

 Through the analysis, the computational pipeline yielded data that when observed, revealed allele specific patterns. In HLA-DRB1*13:03 (viral parent-nested median RMSD: 0.445 Å), the 3D structures yielded consistent peptide coordinate recovery across returned models for the viral peptide (BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁), but showed lower confidence scores and significant positional uncertainty for its human self-peptide (TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂) counterpart within the binding cleft. In HLA-DRB1*15:01 (viral RMSD 1.712 Å, human RMSD: 0.888 Å), most 3D structures displayed varying backbone poses among viral parent peptide models (BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁), but still demonstrated stable, consistent recovery of the proposed human 11-mer core window (TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀) with moderate model confidence. Finally, in HLA-DRB5*01:01 (viral: 0.247 Å), the 3D models showed instability between competing predicted registers for the human self-peptide (TALDO1₂₁₆₋₂₃₀) in these outputs, with longer parent peptide modelling unable to stabilize or confirm either hypothesized placement. 
 
 Figure 6: Concordance of predicted peptide-MHC class I binding affinities for reviewed candidate arms. 
 Scatter plot displaying predicted binding affinity percentiles for all individual peptide arms evaluated in the initial eight-pair audit. Axes show comparative percentile ranks generated by primary predictor algorithms (e.g., NetMHCIIpan vs MixMHCpred); dashed lines delineate predefined binding thresholds at the ≤5th percentile (full binding consensus) and ≤20th percentile (lesser binding consensus). Points are highlighted to distinguish HLA-DRB1*15:01 BALF5-TALDO1 pair (blue) from HLA-DRB1*13:03 BALF5-TALDO1 (orange). 

 In the analysis we also employed input-length comparison in the modeling of the shorter 11-mer and the modelling of the complete 15-mer peptide sequence. In models of the short peptide sequence, results frequently converged, often reaching a consistent structural placement. However, in models of the entire 15-mer peptide sequence, this consistent placement was rarely recovered, with alternate poses and registers being generated. 

 Finally, we calibrated the review pipeline to only focus on the peptide-local confidence metrics (i.e. peptide-level pLDDT and peptide-chain ipTM) in areas of interest like the binding register. Before calibration, the computational model would evaluate the global pMHC metrics (such as ipTM and pTM), which can often obscure peptide uncertainty because the MHC chains are often more defined for the models than the exploratory peptide chains. After this calibration, the local confidence across the peptide binding groove was observed to be much lower. Furthermore, earlier sequence-predicted register-agreement didn&rsquo;t amount to structural confirmation at the atomic-backbone level. 

 3.4 Cross Method Structural Reproducibility 

 For the next stage of the computational model, cross-method structural reproducibility was implemented using PANDORA&rsquo;s structural modelling tool coupled with MODELLER. For the first step, the PANDORA model was tested on its ability to model controls, passing its predefined benchmark of 120 models being scored via expected-register recovery, adjacent-decoy comparison, sequence QC, and template-leakage checks, with the two reciprocal targets of 1BX2 and 6CQQ being entered as controls. Both controls passed this gate, with each control having at least one top-five model with the expected register having a core-backbone RMSD below 2 Å. Both controls also had a lower top-five median RMSD than that of adjacent register decoys. Furthermore, both controls passed the exact-sequence and template-leakage tests. 

 Subsequently, structural modeling was expanded to an ensemble of 1,200 models spanning 10 peptides (BALF5, TALDO1, and eight P6/P7 charge-substitution variants), evaluated across two structural templates and three register placements (20 models per condition). Then, all 10 predefined peptides were evaluated and 0 of the 10 peptides (0/10) demonstrated support for the binding register that was expected (according to NetMHCIIpan and MixMHC2pred) across both structural templates. In another attempt at cross-method structural reproducibility, a subsequent AlphaFold structural modeling dataset was used. The modeling dataset yielded 150 completed models with 30 completed jobs of 5 returned models per job, with seven charge-substitution comparisons having uncertain binding-register placement and one comparison being considered as not-evaluable due to a seed mismatch. 

 The implication of this finding is that the principal factor preventing meaningful structural comparison between the registers could be due to conformational instability and register drift within the proposed core windows across templates and replicates. This shows the register instability involved in structural modeling tools like AlphaFold3 and Pandora/MODELLER for BALF5/TALDO1 charge-substitution inputs and therefore the results of binding register indication should not be interpreted as evidence that charged substitutions disrupted the binding in this context. 

 3.5 Expanded Assessment of 49 Candidate Pairs 

 After the initial screening was determined to be selective, the computational pipeline created a separate, expanded cohort. These 49 candidate pairs were recovered from the original 6,400 allele-specific pair list in the sequence similarity ranking. We then completed computational binding affinity and core-register prediction using NetMHCIIpan, MixMHC2pred, and IEDB recommended binding for all 98 peptides. 

 To ensure consistency in the data, the registers evaluated by NetMHCIIpan were evaluated against registers determined by MixMHC2pred and considered alongside IEDB recommended binding. Across 49 peptide pairs, 44 pairs had at least two predictors selecting the same declared 9-mer core for both peptide arms, while two of the peptide pairs had all three predictor percentile ranks ≤20% for both peptide arms. This demonstrates the high degree of computational register-predictor agreement between the predictive models, rather than any experimentally confirmed structural placement within the HLA groove. 

 BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ in HLA-DRB1*13:03 and BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ in HLA-DRB1*15:01 were the only pairs to satisfy the combined binding and register criteria. 

 In an attempt to ground the computational data with experimental data, 98 automated queries were attempted through the IEDB API, of which 0 retrievable public-evidence records were returned because the API endpoint was unavailable, which led to the classification as not evaluable. Therefore, no candidates were classified as high-priority. Later, targeted manual verification within the IEDB recovered a direct, experimentally confirmed positive binding record for the viral BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁ peptide in the context of HLA-DRB1*15:01. However, the recovered assay only confirmed the viral peptide and didn&rsquo;t confirm the self-peptide (TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀) binding, stable presentation, or dual-reactive T cell-recognition. 

 3.6 Secondary Provisional Classifications 

 After analysis that utilized sequence metrics and targeted assay verification, a provisional shortlist was created, consisting of seven prioritized candidates. Of the seven prioritized candidates, one was described as a strong-medium candidate, two were described as weak-medium candidates, and four were described as strong-low candidates. The remaining forty-two candidates were left untiered due to insufficient evidence to justify a priority ranking and detailed tier explanations are described later in this section. Moreover, no pairs were classified as high-priority due to the unavailability of public-evidence retrieval endpoint in the API. These tier categories are completely distinct from the earlier 8-pair review. 

 Table 2: Candidate classification and evidence audit of the expanded 49-pair cohort 
 Target Allele 
	 Viral-Human Pair 
	 Provisional Status 
	 Primary Supporting Factors 
	 Primary Limitations / Status Rationale 

 HLA-DRB1*15:01 
	 BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁- TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ 
	 Strong- Medium 
	 Complete computational consensus; verified viral binding in IEDB 
	 Register instability in 3D modeling; absent self-arm elution records 

 HLA-DRB1*13:03 
	 BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁- TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ 
	 Weak- Medium 
	 Satisfied expanded binding and register criteria 
	 Unverified public binding/presentation records for this allele context 

 HLA-DRB1*15:01 
	 EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- MBP₂₁₇-₂₃₃ 
	 Weak- Medium 
	 Retained declared register across both calibrated PANDORA templates 
	 Underlying binding-predictor discrepancy; lower sequence rank 

 HLA-DRB1*15:01 
	 BALF4₁₀₃-₁₁₆- CRYAB₁-₁₅ 
	 Strong- Low 
	 Initial sequence similarity score 
	 Structural template discordance and register sensitivity 

 HLA-DRB1*03:01 
	 EBNA2₁₃₆-₁₅₀- MOG₉₇-₁₀₉ 
	 Strong- Low 
	 Initial sequence similarity ranking 
	 Same-allele PANDORA calibration not established; not structurally reassessed 

 HLA-DRB1*08:01 
	 BHRF1₁₂₂-₁₃₃ -ANO2₁₀₄-₁₁₈ 
	 Strong- Low 
	 Initial sequence similarity ranking 
	 Same-allele PANDORA calibration not established; not structurally reassessed 

 HLA-DRB1*08:01 
	 EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ 
	 Strong- Low 
	 Initial sequence similarity ranking 
	 Same-allele PANDORA calibration not established; not structurally reassessed 

 Various 
	 Various 
	 Untiered 
	 Heterogeneous screening profiles 
	 Incomplete consensus or unverified multi-layer evidence 

 

 Discussion 

 4.1 Principal Findings 
 
 In this study, a multi-stage computational screening and evidence review workflow was implemented to prioritize candidate EBV-human peptide pairs for later experimental validation. The central finding of the paper was the two BALF5-TALDO1 pairings (BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ and BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂). Although the HLA-DRB1*15:01 BALF5-TALDO1 pair has the strongest support, the HLA-DRB1*13:03 BALF4-TALDO1 pair demonstrated weaker support primarily due to the lack of verified public presentation data under the review protocol. Alongside these two primary candidates, a small subset of secondary candidates was also identified, notably including the template-consistent EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁-MBP₂₁₇-₂₃₃ pair in HLA-DRB1*15:01 alongside some provisionally strong-low candidates like EBNA2₁₃₆-₁₅₀-MOG₉₇-₁₀₉ and EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃. The benefit of this pipeline was that for future experiments, rather than claiming the functional molecular mimicry in vivo, the defined computational results deliver an explicit, prioritized shortlist focused explicitly on guiding in vitro peptide-HLA binding affinity and structural register-mapping experiments. 

 For future experiments, the order of the pairs in our provisional tiers should guide their experimental order. The first priority for experimental validation is HLA-DRB1*15:01 candidate BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁-TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀ because it has a strong-medium classification, passed the expanded binding-and-register criteria, and because it has exact allele-specific viral-arm peptide IEDB binding evidence. First, it is recommended to start with recombinant peptide-HLA binding for the BALF5 and TALDO1 peptide arms separately to verify stable allele-specific binding. Then, this peptide-HLA binding should be followed by register mapping because structural analyses didn&rsquo;t confirm a single stable backbone register. After the first binding assay has been performed, DRB1*13:03 candidate BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁- TALDO1₁₀₈-₁₂₂ is preferred because both peptide arms passed the expanded binding-and-register criteria and the major aspect preventing it from being considered strong-medium was its lack of public evidence. The third priority for experimental validation is DRB1*15:01 candidate EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁-MBP₂₁₇-₂₃₃ because its predicted register persisted throughout its entire calibrated PANDORA template analysis, even though it failed to meet full binding consensus. After the binding/register results of the top three are available, the four strong-low candidates could be tested. It is recommended that after binding and register placement are confirmed, natural presentation should be tested using immunopeptidomics. Then, matched TCR assays should be performed to test recognition of both peptide-HLA complexes. Then it is recommended that measurement of functional activation is performed because docking similarity alone is insufficient. 

 4.2 Relevance of BALF5-TALDO1 

 Although the BALF5-TALDO1 pairs may not have had the most convincing sequence similarity scores like EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ and EBNA3B₁₃₉-₁₅₃-MOG₂₂₁-₂₃₅, the raw sequence alignment represents only an initial layer rather than the sole driver of molecular similarity. Another reason for why the BALF5-TALDO1 pairs remained so prominent was because they were the only viral-self pairings across the entire 49-pair cohort to satisfy the full binding consensus criteria alongside dual-peptide register agreement in both HLA-DRB1*13:03 and *15:01 contexts.. Furthermore, in HLA-DRB1*15:01, the targeted database verification recovery of direct experimental binding evidence for the viral BALF5₆₂₇-₆₄₁ peptide demonstrates a grounding that most other epitopes didn&rsquo;t have. That said, the self-antigen peptide (TALDO1₂₁₆-₂₃₀) remains unconfirmed by any ligand or direct binding assays. On the other hand, in HLA-DRB1*13:03, even though both peptides in the pair met the predictive thresholds, the pair was downgraded due to the complete absence of allele-specific public binding records found under our review protocol. Finally, the replacement of the initial review tiers with the expanded provisional classification reflected the decrease in reliance on conflicting scores and increasing the reliance on several defined factors like structural template stability, and verified public assay data. 

 4.3 Contribution of Structural Analyses 
 In this computational pipeline, there was a mix in the use of predictive algorithms and structural comparison. This is because a high consensus among sequence-based register prediction algorithms like NetMHCIIpan or MixMHC2Pred doesn&rsquo;t guarantee structural coordinate stability and therefore, structural analysis of 3D models generated by AlphaFold was necessary. Furthermore, sequence analyses often were biased at shorter-lengths. Specifically, through the analysis, it was observed that shorter 11-mer nested core peptides modeled into stable conformations in the models analyzed, but those exact conformations were often lost or shifted when the 11-mer&rsquo;s parent 15-mer peptide was used. Additionally, structural analyses were also very important in isolating the local confidence metrics (i.e. peptide-local pLDDT and peptide-chain ipTM), which were important in the evaluation of the modeled structure, as global confidence metrics often obscure peptide uncertainty due to high heterodimer confidence scores. Structural analyses were also impactful in predicting the reason for some discrepancies. For example, the comparison between the AlphaFold3 and PANDORA structures revealed that the conformational instability could be a result of the tested modelling conditions rather than a biophysical issue. Finally, another area where the structural modeling was important was contrast between template retention. For example, while the BALF5-TALDO1 pair showed unresolved structural register drift across models at times, the EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁-MBP₂₁₇-₂₃₃ pair stably maintained its declared register across the calibrated PANDORA templates, but structural analyses proved to be useful in determining how this computational reproducibility was a result of geometric plausibility rather than proof of native binding. 

 4.4 Linkage to prior research 
 While large-scale cohort studies like the one conducted by Bjornevik et al. established the epidemiological link between EBV infection and multiple sclerosis and landmark structural studies like the one conducted by Lanz et al. which supported high-affinity antibody cross-reactivity between EBNA1 and GlialCAM, the mechanisms described in these paper operate under fundamentally different molecular rules than pMHC class II T-cell recognition. Furthermore, following the literature definition of T-cell cross reactivity, which defines cross-reactivity as the dual recognition of peptide-HLA complexes, this project&rsquo;s claims were limited to computational candidate prioritization and predicted peptide-HLA similarities. Several pairs that seem familiar to the literature of molecular mimicry between EBV and MS proteins like EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁- ANO2₇₉-₉₃ and EBNA1₈₇-₁₀₁-MBP₂₁₇-₂₃₃ emerged within the sequence-based and structural-based screens. That said, shared protein pairings must be distinguished from the exact epitopes. Finally, the use of high-scoring literature-informed pairings as independent computational validation was avoided as these antigens were deliberately selected based on literature-grounded disease associations because literature-based recovery can inflate apparent recovery. 

 4.5 Teachings by the additional methods: 
 
 While Poisson-Boltzmann electrostatic surface potential comparison was explored, it was excluded from primary candidate ranking because the electrostatic similarity scoring failed to discriminate between the positive calibration control benchmark and background decoys. Additionally, TCRModel2 docking simulations were attempted to evaluate pMHC-TCR complexes. Since the pose recovery didn&rsquo;t consistently meet the DockQ acceptable binding score of 0.23, meeting the boundary for the experimental structure 1YMM but not 2WBJ or 1BX2. Therefore, docking outputs could not be utilized to confirm candidate-specific TCR recognition. Importantly, these failures of exploratory modeling tools reflect current algorithmic constraints rather than biophysical proof that cross-reactivity is absent in vivo. 

 4.6 Limitation: 
 
 As a computational project, this study had many limitations. The search space was extremely limited to pre-curated viral epitopes and selected myelin/CNS proteins across four HLA-DRB1 alleles, omitting broader targets and alternative class II loci (i.e. HLA-DQ and HLA-DP). Furthermore, the study was heavily dependent on the metrics of the scoring matrices, with relative rankings shifting significantly between TCR-facing BLOSUM62 and full-length core BLOSUM62 matrices alongside conservative residue mismatch parameters approaches. Additionally, sequence predictors often share training datasets (e.g. IEDB-derived binding measurements), creating the possibility for algorithmic biases across independent tools. Moreover, the lack of public assay datasets and absent self-peptide immunopeptidomic records left these self-peptides as largely unconfirmed in physiological systems. Finally, in-silico modeling cannot account for endogenous antigen processing, tapasin and HLA-DM editing, cell surface complex stability, downstream TCR signaling thresholds, and other biological processes. 

 4.7 Experimental Next Steps: 
 
 In the future, physical binding assays could be used as a way to quantify binding affinity for both viral and self-peptides against recombinant HLA-DRB1 molecules using fluorescence polarization or surface plasmon resonance. Additionally, register mapping could be performed via alanine-scanning mutagenesis and X-ray crystallography or cryo-EM to determine the active binding core. T cell cross-recognition could also be evaluated using peptide-HLA complexes to measure dual functional activation in patient-derived or transgenic CD4+ T cells. Finally, another method that could be used in the future is the assessment of endogenous processing through target elution and mass spectrometry of HLA molecules from infected or inflamed antigen-presenting cells.